=head1 NAME

Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack::Guides::Developing - Developing with AssetPack

=head1 OVERVIEW

This guide will provide a setup for effective development with
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack>.

=head1 GUIDE

=head2 Environment variables

It is possible to set environment variables to change the behavior of AssetPack:

=over 2

=item * MOJO_ASSETPACK_DEBUG

Set this environment variable to get more debug to STDERR. Currently you can
set it to a value between 0 and 3, where 3 provides the most debug.

=item * MOJO_ASSETPACK_LAZY

Set this environment variable if you want to delay processing the assets until
they are requested. This can be very useful while developing when the assets
are changed frequently.

=back

=head2 Faster development cycle

For a faster development cycle, you can use
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack::Pipe::Reloader>, and L<MOJO_ASSETPACK_LAZY>.
The combination of the two will result in a webpage that reload itself when
a change is found in either an asset or the perl code.

Example application:

  use Mojolicious::Lite;
  plugin "AssetPack" => {pipes => [qw(Css Reloader)]};
  app->asset->process;
  get "/" => "example";
  app->start;

  __DATA__
  @@ assetpack.def
  ! myapp.css
  < main.css

  @@ main.css
  body { background: pink; }

  @@ example.html.ep
  <!DOCTYPE html>
  <html>
    <head>
      <title>This page will reload when changes are made</title>

      %# Some asset you have defined:
      %= asset "myapp.css"

      %# See Reloader pipe for details
      %= asset "reloader.js" if app->mode eq "development"
    </head>
    <body>
      This is a reload test page!
    </body>
  </html>

How to run the application:

  $ MOJO_ASSETPACK_LAZY=1 morbo myapp.pl

=head2 Enforcing production assets

To be sure that production assets are built correctly, you can add a unit test
like the one below. This is especially important if you are using
L</MOJO_ASSETPACK_LAZY>.

  use Test::Mojo;
  use Test::More;

  $ENV{MOJO_MODE} = "production";
  my $t = Test::Mojo->new("MyApp");

  $t->get_ok("/")
    ->element_exists(q(head link[href$="/app.css"]))
    ->element_exists(q(body script[src$="/app.js"]));

  done_testing;

The C<element_exists()> tests should match the topics defined when defining the
different assets.

=head1 Optional modules

There are some optional modules you might want to install:

=over 2

=item * L<CSS::Minifier::XS>

Used by L<Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack::Pipe::Css>.

=item * L<CSS::Sass>

Used by L<Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack::Pipe::Sass>.

=item * L<IO::Socket::SSL>

Required if you want to download assets served over SSL.

=item * L<JavaScript::Minifier::XS>

Used by L<Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack::Pipe::JavaScript>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack>,
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack::Guides::Cookbook> and
L<Mojolicious::Plugin::AssetPack::Guides::Tutorial>.

=cut
